Ahittelm/tempvarpresets (#5677)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/graphing/dashboards/template_variables.md

  text: "Discover all available Widgets for your Dashboard"
---

Template variables allow you to dynamically apply specific metric or log values to one or more widgets in each dashboard. 

## Add a Template Variable

> To create your first template variable in the dashboard, click **Add Template Variables**. If there template variables are already defined, click on the *-pencil-* icon to open the template variable editor. Once in edit mode click on **Add Variable +** to add another template variable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create your first template variable in the dashboard, click **Add Template Variables**. If template variables are already defined, click on the *-pencil-* icon to open the template variable editor. Once in edit mode, click on **Add Variable +** to add another template variable. 
```

{{< img src="graphing/dashboards/template_variables/edit_mode_template_variable.png" alt="Edit template variable" responsive="true" style="width:40%;">}}

A template variable is defined by:

> * **Name**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* **Name**:
```
You need the line down here or the formatting won't work.

**Note**: Using the `Add to all` button adds the template variable to all log/APM widgets.

> ### Template Variable Saved Views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Template variable saved views
```

> #### Creating a Saved View of Template Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Creating a saved view of template variables
```

{{< img src="graphing/dashboards/template_variables/default_view.png" alt="Default Saved View" responsive="true" style="width:75%;">}}

> To the left of the template variables on a dashboard, there is a dropdown listed as “(Default Value)”. When you make a change to a template variable value, the value is not automatically saved to a View. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To the left of the template variables on a dashboard, there is a dropdown listed as *(Default Value)*. When you make a change to a template variable value, the value is not automatically saved to a view. 
```

> To save the current values of the template variables in a View, click on the dropdown menu and click “Save selections as view”. From there, you will be prompted to enter a unique name for the View. After saving, this View will be listed in the dropdown menu. By clicking on this View you can return to the template variables' previously saved values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save the current values of the template variables in a view, click on the dropdown menu and click *Save selections as view*. From there, you are prompted to enter a unique name for the view. After saving, this view is listed in the dropdown menu. Click on this view to retrieve the previously saved values for the template variables. 
```

> #### Delete a Saved View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Delete a saved view
```

> To delete a View, click on the dropdown again and click “Manage views...”. From there, a popup with each of the saved Views will be displayed with the trash bin icon next to each for deletion. Click the trash bin icon to delete that View.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a view, click on the saved views dropdown and choose *Manage views...*. From there, a popup with your saved views is displayed with a trash bin icon next to each view. Click the appropriate trash bin icon to delete a view.
```

> #### Modify a Saved View

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Modify a saved view
```

{{< img src="graphing/dashboards/template_variables/manage_views.png" alt="Manage View Popup" responsive="true" style="width:75%;">}}

> To modify the “(Default Value)” View, click on the pencil icon and update the template variable values. Then click “Done” to save. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the *(Default Value)* view, click on the pencil icon and update the template variable values. Then click *Done* to save. 
```

> If any values in the other Views are changed, save the values as a new View, and then delete the original View. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any values in the other views are changed, save the values as a new view, and then delete the original view. 
```
